[issue] Ubuntu WSL: test and improve the work-in-progress Ubuntu WSL tutorial (#183)
canonical/open-documentation-academy: wsl/tutorial/develop-with-ubuntu-wsl.md

There are multiple ways of installing Ubuntu on WSL, here we focus on using the terminal.
For other installation methods, refer to your dedicated guide:

> - [Install Ubuntu on WSL2](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/wsl/en/latest/guides/install-ubuntu-wsl2/)

Author: Oh. That must have been an oversight. Thanks for spotting it!

* Ubuntu-24.04    Stopped         2
```

> ### Running basic Linux commands on WSL

Author: Hi Shane. I have taken a look at this and I agree with you. I'll use a different approach that takes them through opening the Windows Terminal app and selecting the Ubuntu CLI option before introducing these commands.

### Create an HTML file in WSL

First, you should create a new directory (call it **ubuntuWSL** for this tutorial) to save your file. Use the `mkdir` command we saw earlier:

```{code-block} text
$ mkdir ubuntuWSL
```

Next, you should navigate into the new directory:

```{code-block} text
$ cd ubuntuWSL
```

After you complete the step above, you can create an HTML file by using `nano`. `nano` is a command-line text editor and it comes pre-installed with Ububtu WSL. You can use it to quickly create and edit files right from your terminal. Type this command to create a `index.html` file from the terminal:

```{code-block} text
$ nano index.html
```

The command above will open a text editor in your WSL instance. Paste this HTML snippet into the editor:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>Document</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1>Hello, World!</h1>
  </body>
</html>
```

Type `ctrl + s` to save your file and the `ctrl + x` to exit the edtior.
To confirm that your file contains actual HTML, type `cat index.html`. You should see the content of your HTML file displayed on the terminal.

> ### Browse your WSL files in Windows explorer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Browse your Ubuntu files in Windows explorer
```

> Interacting with files and folders from the terminal can be daunting, especially for a Windows user. It is possible to interact with your files in WSL from Windows explorer by typing the command below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are unfamiliar with managing files and folders in the terminal, you can open the current working directory in the Ubuntu terminal using Windows explorer:
```

```{code-block} text
$ explorer.exe .
```

> The command will open up your current folder in Windows explorer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This might be an opportunity to show that you can actually access the Ubuntu filesystem from the Windows Start menu or file explorer, even if the terminal instance is not running.

I don't have a Windows computer in front of me right now, but it should be possible to search for "ubuntu", click it and see the files.

> ### Serving static HTML in WSL with Python

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Running a simple web server from Ubuntu
```

> Python is a programming language that comes pre-installed with Ubuntu in WSL. You can use it for multiple things, including serving HTML files to your browser. In your command like, type ths following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Python is pre-installed with Ubuntu in WSL and can be used right away. To serve your `index.html` you can use Python's built-in HTTP server from within the `web` directory:
```

At the end of the tutorial, others uses of Python for WSL can be indicated and linked, such as data science.

```{code-block} python
$ python3 -m http.server
```

> Next, visit `http://localhost:8000/` to see your HTML document displayed on the browser:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now click [http://localhost:8000/](http://localhost:8000/) and your HTML will open in your default Windows browser.
```

![HTML web page displaying "hello world" in bold text](media/html-web-page-displaying-hello-world-in-bold-text.png)

> You can exit the server by typing `ctrl +c`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To exit the server, type`ctrl + c` from within the Ubuntu terminal.
```

> ## Install Visual Studio Code on Windows

Reviewer: This probably needs a better title to better transition from the previous section.

```suggestion
## Remote development in Ubuntu with Visual Studio Code
```

Navigate to the `Extensions` menu in the sidebar and search for `Remote Development`.

This is an extension pack that allows you to open any folder in a container, remote machine, or in WSL. Alternatively, you can just install `Remote - WSL` via the terminal.

![Installation page for the Remote Development Visual Studio Code extension.](https://github.com/ubuntu/wsl/blob/main/docs/tutorials/assets/vscode/remote-extension.png?raw=true)

Once installed we can test it out by creating an example local web server with Python.

> ## Create a new Python project

Reviewer: I'm not going to go into detail line-by-line on the next section, as we have already discussed this offline.

The key points that we need to consider are:

* Is the introduction of Flask and other machinery like virtual environments justified here, in the context of the tutorial, or is there some better way we could use this space?
* Do we show the features of VS Code's WSL integration and how they help us get something useful done?
* Could the Flask app be made to do something more interesting in the WSL context, like log out some instance-specific information?
* Can we run the app as a systemd service to show off that feature of the WSL system?
* Can we demonstrate in some interesting way how files can be managed across Windows and WSL (e.g., moving an image into the WSL directory, or accessing an image from Windows)

> Python is a programming languages that comes pre-installed with WSL so you don't need to install it like you would on native Windows. We'll build a simple web server with Python to demonstrate how to work with WSL from windows.

Reviewer: avoid repetition.
